---
title: Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC  2014 Volume 4   Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC  2014 Volume 4   Release Notes  
platform: ejmvc
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="December 24, 2014"  version="v12.4.0.24" %} 






## Chart

### Features
{:#chart-features}

* Now Chart supports the following 10 Technical Indicators.
* Triangular Average Indicator.
* Stochastic Indicator.
* Simple Average Indicator.
* MACD Indicator.
* RSI Indicator.
* Exponential Average Indicator.
* Momentum Technical Indicator.
* Average True Range Indicator.
* Bollinger Band Indicator.
* Accumulation Distribution indicator.

    

### Bug fixes
{:#chart-bug-fixes}

* \#132770-Bubble chart now gets rendered properly even when both X and Y values are 0 and it is passed through data source.
* \#132394-Cleared the misbehavior of RangePadding additional value.
* \#132394-Now Data label fill color is applying properly in chart.
* \#132394-Now Data labels and markers are fully visible even specifying the plotOffset.
* \#131936 - Fixed rendering issue with X axis labels when passing values as string.
* \#129156 - Chart now gets rendered in canvas when width is set to 100%.
* \#132165 - Browser no longer hangs when point value is less than 1 in log axis.



## DatePicker 

### Bug fixes
{:#datepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#132624 - Issue with Web Date Picker control's style gets overridden while using both Web and Mobile libraries in same application has been fixed. 
## Diagram

### Features
{:#diagram-features}

* Option to customize the space between nodes and connector (when connected) has been provided.
* Built-in support for JSRender for HTML and Native node has been provided
* Grouping Implementation changes for Layout has been provided.
* \#130274 - Bridge direction support for line bridging has been provided.



### Bug fixes
{:#diagram-bug-fixes}

* \#131601 - Fixed the issue with port to port connection.
* \#132358 - Fixed the issue occurred while exporting bezier connector to image format.
* \#132596 - Fixed the issue in rendering custom context menu.


### Breaking changes
{:#diagram-breaking-changes}

*  Shape's ContentId and Html properties are depreciated. Instead of this, use Shape's TemplateId property. 


## DocIO

### Features
{:#docio-features}

* \#130995 - Support to execute mail merge for nested groups using relational data objects have been added.
* \#128856 - Support to insert and update bookmark cross reference field have been added.


### Bug fixes
{:#docio-bug-fixes}

* \#131572 - Fixed the issue with MappedFields property during mail merge.
* \#131305 - CharacterFormat property of WFieldMark class has now been exposed as public.
* \#131457,#131456 - Fixed the tab and table content preservation issues in HTML to Word document conversion.
* \#131272 - Null reference exception is no longer thrown while opening the Word document.
* \#131309 - Fixed the shadow preservation issue in DOTX to DOCX conversion.
* \#131266 - Fixed the content preservation issue while converting Word document to PDF.
* \#130616 - Null reference exception is no longer thrown in Doc to Pdf conversion.
* \#131175 - Index out of range exception is no longer thrown while updating the TableOfContents.
* \#131175 - Fixed the image position preservation issue in doc to pdf conversion.
* \#131092 - Fixed the superscript text preservation issue in doc to pdf conversion.
* \#131157,#133062 - Fixed the image position preservation issue in doc to pdf conversion.
* \#131041 - Fixed background color preservation issue with Frames.
* \#130949 - Fixed the symbol and horizontal merge preservation issue while saving the document as RTF.
* \#130989 - Fixed the issue with picture preservation while resaving the Word document through DocIO.
* \#130941 - Fixed the image original size preservation issue for the inserted EMF image.
* \#130863 - Fixed the text position preservation issue while resaving the DOCX document.
* \#130008 - Null reference exception is no longer thrown while resaving the Doc format document.
* \#130743 - Fixed the heading preservation issue while converting word document to HTML.
* \#130743 - Fixed the footnote reference marker navigation issue in Word to HTML conversion.
* \#130615 - Fixed the image preservation issue in Word document to PDF conversion.
* \#130485 - Argument out of range exception is no longer thrown in Word document to PDF conversion.
* \#132346 - Argument out of range exception is no longer thrown while adding new rows to the existing table in the Doc format document.
* \#130469 - Fixed the TOC corruption issue while updating the TableOfContents.
* \#130305 - Unicode characters in item name of compressed file are preserved properly.
* \#129842 - Fixed the shape size preservation issue in DOCX to DOCX conversion.
* \#129765 - Fixed the table border preservation issue in Doc to PDF conversion.
* \#131911 - Fixed the content overlapping and content preservation issues in Doc to Pdf conversion.
* \#131586 - "You cannot add no cloned entity from other document" exception is no longer thrown while inserting the paragraph from one document to another.
* \#130401 - Fixed the content preservation issues in Doc to Pdf conversion.
* \#131356 - ArgumentOutOfRangeException is no longer thrown while parsing the attached RTF document.
* \#131839 - Added API to access local reference of Hyperlink in Word document using DocIO.
* \#118634 - Fixed the issue with content alignment in word to pdf conversion.
* \#128020 - Fixed the text watermark preservation issue in Word to EMF conversion.
* \#126021 -Extra page is no longer added in DocToPDF conversion using DocIO in French culture.

## Grid

### Bug fixes
{:#grid-bug-fixes}

* \#140066 - Script error is no longer thrown while refreshing dataSource of a grid with foreignKey column.
* \#129579 - No longer throws exception when using Properties Model Grid.
* \#139349 - columnIndex is now correctly calculated while rendering more than one grid when enabling the grouping for the first grid.
* \#139582 - Script error is no more thrown while adding data in the empty Grid with summary row.
* \#140053, \#140608 - Script error is no more thrown by excel filter when null value is present in Grid.
* \#139443 - Issue with Grid showing no record to display after filtering date column with enable persistence has been fixed.
* \#139822 - Details Template row index now calculates properly while selecting the row after expanding details row.
* \#139233 - Added record displayed the first record value when identity the field enabled issue is now fixed.
* \#134694 - Note the Tick mark next to Greater Than in Excel.
* \#138988 - DetailsTemplate is not working properly when using scrolling.
* \#139052 - Need to provide Excel filtering support while exporting.
* \#139242 - After sorting context menu does not open for last row when allowScrolling is enabled.

## Maps

### Features
{:#maps-features}

* SelectedItems - API name is added for to get the collection of selected maps data 


### Bug fixes
{:#maps-bug-fixes}

* \#140139 - Custom item template tooltip issues has been fixed
* \#140054 - DockPosition bottom for legend issues has been fixed
* \#140054 - Text of some legend elements wrap into few lines issues has been fixed

## MaskEditTextbox

### Bug fixes
{:#maskedittextbox-bug-fixes}

* \#139681- "InputMode" property works properly in MaskEditTextBoxFor control. 
## OLAP Chart

### Features
{:#olapchart-features}

*  \#120027, \#124881, \#127612, \#132818, \#136626, \#138105, \#138480 - Exporting OlapChart to Word,Excel,PDF and image formats has been implemented. 
## OLAP Client

### Features
{:#olapclient-features}

* \#120027, \#124881, \#127612, \#132818, \#136626, \#138105, \#138480 - Exporting OlapChart and PivotGrid to Word and PDF documents has been implemented.
## Essential PDF

### Bug fixes
{:#essential-pdf-bug-fixes}

* \#143150 - HTML to PDF conversion takes more time and never finishes issue is now resolved.


* \#138951-Text will not overlap while drawing empty string in PdfTextElement.
* \#135741-Object null reference exception will not occur when creating the document in multithreading environment
* \#139050-Access Violation Exception will not throw when we tried to open the attached PDF File
* \#139089 - Getting wrong temp path issue in webkit converter is now resolved.
* \#137593 - Getting empty string issue while applying OCR to the image with intersected region is now resolved.
* \#139386 - Pdf document is now transparent when overlaid into pdf template.
* \#138640 - Getting white spaces issue in right side of the pdf document while converting Html to Pdf has been resolved.
* \#137894 - Exception no more occurs while merging password protected document.
* \#137889 - Getting blur image issue while drawing the png image in pdf document has been resolved.
* \#137554 - Exception no more occurs when extracting the font from PDF.
* \#136525 - Document containing wrong offset values are now corrected.
* \#137138 - Unsupported security dictionary exception no more occurs while loading a secured pdf file.
* \#135741 - Object null reference exception no more occurs while creating the document in multithreading environment.
* \#135736 - Key not found exception no more occurs while creating the document in multithreading environment.
* \#135734 - Collection was modified and enumeration operation may not execute exception no more occurs while saving the document.
* \#135733 - Dead lock no more occurs while saving the Watermarked PDF document in multi threading environment.
* \#138951 - Text overlapping issue while setting empty string in PdfTextElement has been resolved.
* \#138337 - Legacy Drawing now updates the Registry properly.
* \#138368 - Getting checkbox properties are changed issue while highlighting the fields has been resolved.
* \#107371,#112562,#115995 - Repeated contents appearing in HTML to PDF conversion issue is now fixed.
* \#135853 - Text preservation issue while enabling cache is false has been resolved.
* \#136332 - Exception no more occurs while converting XPS to Pdf.
* \#137724, #139566 - While converting Doc to Pdf, Pdf file size is large issue is now fixed.
* \#137271 - Font preservation issue in PdfLoadedTextBox fields text has been resolved.



### Features
{:#essential-pdf-features}

*  Loading annotations from existing documents has been improved.
*  EMF to PDF conversion has been improved.
*  PDF creator has been enhanced for multi threaded environments.

## PivotGrid

### Features
{:#pivotgrid-features}

* \#107127, \#112524, \#114329 - Expand and collapse support has been provided for PivotGrid containing Relational datasource.
* \#120027, \#124881, \#127612, \#132818, \#136626, \#138105, \#138480 - Exporting PivotGrid to Word and PDF documents has been implemented.
* \#119715 - Provided support for conditional formatting.
* Grouping bar support has been provided for PivotGrid containing Relational datasource.
* Cell selection support has been implemented.

## Presentation

### Features
{:#presentation-features}


* \#140163 , \#139903- Support for cloning and merging slides in Presentation files has been added.
* Support for encrypting and decrypting Presentation files has been added.



### Bug fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}

* \#138896 - Indent spacing and text spacing issue while converting PPTX file to PDF has been resolved.
* \#138896 - Slide Background shape issue in provided sample has been resolved.
* \#139125 - Argument exception is no more thrown while converting presentation file to pdf.
* \#139125 - Argument out of range exception is no more thrown while converting a presentation file to pdf.
* \#139125 - Null Reference exception is no more thrown while converting a presentation file to pdf.
* \#139125 - Color blend object no more throws exception while converting PPTX to PDF conversion.

## ReportViewer

### Bug fixes
{:#reportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#139991 - Render Area is now displayed in ReportViewer mobile mode.
* \#138585 - Default value now applies when you get default value from stored procedure.
* \#139820 - Tablix disappear when you specify the conditional color code for textbox issue is now fixed.
* \#140641 - No more exceptions will be thrown in header style json models.
* \#139480 - Text can now be vertically aligned in TextBox.
* \#138180 - Tablix report item height does not exceed the body page height.
* \#137458 - Query based expression works fine now.

## Ribbon

### Breaking changes
{:#ribbon-breaking-changes}

* Provided Backstage Page support for Ribbon 

## Schedule

### Features
{:#schedule-features}


* The priority feature allows you to prioritize the appointments with default values and individual icons/images. You can also customize the priority values and icons by using the template or from a data source.
* The Inline delete feature is provided to the appointments. When you hover, a button appears and by clicking the "X" button on the appointment deletes it.
* Customizing the time scale option is provided by which you can enable or disable the time scale by using the "showTimeScale" property.
* The header bar can be enable/disable by using the "showHeaderBar" property.
* Daylight Saving Time (DST) feature is added to the schedule appointments that can be enabled by setting the "DaylightSavingTime" property to true.


### Bug fixes
{:#schedule-bug-fixes}


* \#139835, \#139834 - Date navigation and alignment issue in custom view of horizontal multiple resource has been resolved.
* \#139705 - Script error is no more thrown when you create the appointment without binding any data.
* \#139983 - AppointmentClick and AppointmentHover argument returns undefined appointment issue is now fixed.


## TreeGrid

### Features
{:#treegrid-features}


* \#130466,\#130535 - Provided support for summary rows in TreeGrid.
* \#136365 - Provided support for details row template in TreeGrid.
* \#137447,\#138371 - Provided support for dropdown filtering.
* Now an additional argument columnIndex is included in contextMenuOpen event arguments for fetching column details.


### Breaking changes
{:#treegrid-breaking-changes}

* requestType value in rowDragStop event arguments is changed from rowDragStop to insert position(insertAbove/insertBelow/insertAsChild). 
## Uploadbox

### Bug fixes
{:#uploadbox-bug-fixes}

* \#139243 - UploadBox now raises error event properly in IE8 and IE9.

## XlsIO

### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#137871	- Text alignment differs while exporting to PDF is now resolved.

* \#139737	- Data validations in extension list is no longer lost while resaving in XlsIO.

* \#139986	- Excel to PDF Conversion process hangs is now resolved.

* \#140408	- Calibri Unicode characters are now properly converted in ExcelToPDF.

* \#140408	- Alignment is changed while converting Calibri Unicode characters to PDF is now resolved.

* \#140485	- Background color is missing in XlsIO is now resolved.

* \#140547	- ArgumentOutOfRangeException is no more thrown when converting a Excel file to PDF in Italian culture.

* \#140873	- File no longer gets corrupted due to repeated data validations during CopyTo().

* \#140888	- Cell Formatting is now proper in XlsIO.

* \#141140, \#F119555 - Null reference exception thrown while converting Excel to PDF is now fixed.

* \#141188	- Excel overlapping scenario using merged ranges is now resolved.

* \#141200	- RTF issues with line breaks are resolved.

* \#141287, \#143511 - ParseException is no more thrown at parsing the formula of an Excel file.

* \#141357	- FormatException is no more thrown when converting an Excel file to PDF.

* \#141360	- Date format loss in display text having formulas in XlsIO is now resolved.

* \#141373	- ApplicationException is no more thrown while opening a file in XlsIO.

* \#141529	- Time Formatting issue in XlsIO is now resolved.

* \#141783, \#142874, \#144317 - DataValidations are missed while resaving in XlsIO is now resolved.

* \#141835, \#142140 - XlsIO throws out of memory exception and takes a long time to perform AutoFitColumns is now fixed.

* \#141904	- Chart Data Range is updated properly while inserting a new range.

* \#142117, \#144113 - Custom DateTime formatting issues in XlsIO is now resolved.

* \#142165	- Performance issue while accessing IRange.RowHeight property in XlsIO is now resolved.

* \#142285	- Number format contains escape sequences issue is now fixed.

* \#142507	- Display Text Property dropping last "0" character in cell is now resolved.

* \#142530	- Protecting an unprotected sheet, no more throws an exception in binary file.

* \#142538	- RTF alignment support is now provided in ExcelToPDFConversion.

* \#142611	- Row height is properly updated in copied worksheets.

* \#142740, \#143592 - Parsing a workbook with shapes no more throws argument exception.

* \#142755	- ParseException is no more thrown while accessing IRange.ConditionalFormats property in XlsIO.

* \#142811	- Border is incorrect on merged cells in ExcelToPDF Conversion is now resolved.

* \#142816	- PrintArea is null while changing the workbook version is now resolved.

* \#142969	- Support is now provided to parse and serialize the chart caches in XlsIO.

* \#143074	- Getting different row height, when row contain rotated text as merged cell in XlsIO is now resolved.

* \#143378	- Named range now returns proper value in XlsIO.

* \#143421	- Chart is now preserved while passing file stream in ExcelToPDFConverter.

* \#143460	- Access violation exception is no more thrown while closing the workbook.

* \#143661	- Chart position is now retained properly in Excel to PDF conversion.

* \#143769	- NullReferenceException is no more thrown while converting excel to PDF.

* \#143769	- Scale with document option is now working  properly in excel to PDF conversion.

* \#144471	- The outlineWrapper range is now properly updated while modifying the rows with in the group.

* Issue with AutoFitColumns and AutoFitRow() method is fixed.

* RightBorder issue in ExcelToPDFConversion is now resolved.

* DataBar formatting is not applied to cell even if the cell value is blank or 0.

* Exception is no more thrown while collapsing the inner outline level.

* Issue in CopyStyles Options in XlsIO is now resolved.

* NullReferenceException is no more thrown while opening file with background image.

* Rounding value is now properly working in XlsIO.

* InvalidOperationException is no more thrown while parsing CF of type 3Stars IconSet.

* Display text is changed after creating the table format for the range is now resolved.

* ArgumentOutOfRange Exception is no more  thrown while adding empty formula of extern book.

* Table style issues in ExcelToPDFConversion is now resolved.

* Radar chart is now preserved properly while resaving an excel document.

* Auto-Filter returns invalid results in XlsIO is now resolved.

* First Condition property with AutoFilters is now working properly.

* SecondCondition property with AutoFilters is now working properly.

* IsFirstCondition is now working in AutoFilters.

* IsAnd property is working Incorrectly in AutoFilters is now resolved.

* IsSecondCondition property is  working  properly in AutoFilters.

* Null reference exception is no more thrown while parsing the data bar for Conditional Format.

* Parsing support is now provided for Data bar properties in XlsIO.

* Duplicate CF added is removed, when CF have Data bar type.

* Default conditional value type "Automatic" support is now provided for Data bar in XlsIO.

* Exception is no more thrown at parsing chart sheet.

* Sorting is incorrect when apply sorting for column containing both number and text is  now fixed.

* Applying a cell style removes the existing cell style is resolved.

* Copying and pasting a table with styles is  working properly in XlsIO.

* Destination cell value is cleared when copying a range with CopyStyles option is now resolved.

* Page is Missing in ExcelToPDFConversion is now resolved.

* Chart Area Fill color is now preserved while cloning the workbook.

* RTF support is now provided in HeaderFooter.

* Text missing issue when cell text is move to next page in ExcelToPDFConversion is now resolved.

* Argument out of range exception is no more thrown while opening a CSV file using XlsIO.

* DateTime is serialized when DataValidation AllowType property as Time is now resolved.

* ConditionalFormat is now applied properly in XlsIO.

* IShape.IsShapeVisible property is always true for hidden image is now resolved.

* LeftBorderLineStyle of ExtendedFormatImpl returns wrong value is now fixed.

* XlsIO returns incorrect icon set format style while import on Default is now resolved.

* Reverse order for icon set was not properly handled at parsing is fixed.

* Not a legal oleaut date while opening CSV file is now resolved.

* IRange.Comment property returns value instead of Null is now resolved.

* Conditional Format order is different in XlsIO is now fixed.

* Argument Exception is no more thrown while opening the input file having form Control.

* Chart is preserved properly when an excel file is resaved.

* ThrowNotSavedOnDestroy property while closing a workbook is implemented.

* Styles are preserved even the hyperlinks where removed from the sheet object is now resolved.

* Resaving a file fails to preserve scheme color of a shape is now resolved.
