---
title       : Essential Studio ASP.NET MVC 2015 Vol 4(Service Pack 1) Release Notes
description : Essential Studio ASP.NET MVC 2015 Vol 4 (Service Pack 1) Release Notes
platform    : ejmvc
---

# Essential Studio ASP.NET MVC Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date="February 12, 2016" version="v13.4.0.58" %}





## Chart

### Bug Fixes
{:#chart-bug-fixes}

* \#150616 - Doughnut chart is now rendering properly for single point.
* \#149923 - Tooltip will work even while panning is enabled.
* \#148420, \#149816 - AxesLabelRendering event is now working properly.
* \#149936 - DataLabel text, now working properly when changing the axis range through set model.
* \#149756 - PointRegionClick event will not trigger when clicking the reset button.
* \#147756 – Minor tick lines and grid lines will now render properly.
## Common

### Bug fixes
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#150349,#150883- Now Syncfusion.EJ.MVC v.13.4300.0.58 has been compiled using System.Web.Mvc v.3.0.
## Diagram

### Features

* \#148880 - Support to set the relative/absolute position for the port has been implemented.
* \#149275 - Support to draw polygon points dynamically using polygon tool has been implemented.
## DocIO

### Bug Fixes
{:#docio-bug-fixes} 

* \#148757 - List restart numbering is now preserved properly in the generated DOCX document.
* \#148656 - Font properties preservation issue while converting HTML to Word document has been fixed.
* \#149126 - Hyperlink is now preserved properly while opening RTF document.
* \#149172 - Header and Footer is now preserved properly while converting Word document to HTML.
* \#149314 - Argument out of range exception is no longer thrown while saving the Word document.
* \#150546 - MergeField event is now triggered properly while Mail merging.
* \#148551 - Null reference exception is no longer thrown while converting Word document to PDF.
* \#150145 - No duplicate entry of heading text is added to the updated Table of Contents. 
* \#150567 - Hyperlink preservation issue while converting Word document to PDF has been fixed.
* No extra empty paragraph is preserved now at the end of Word document.
* Object reference exception is no longer thrown while converting RTF to Word document.
* `An item with same key has been already added` exception is no longer thrown while opening the Word document with duplicate list styles.
* `An item with same key has been already added` exception is no longer thrown while opening the Word document with duplicate character styles.


## Gantt

### Features
{:#gantt-features}

* \#149724 - Now you can provide any custom color for milestones. 
* \#150068 - Now in `QueryTaskbarInfo` event, new event arguments have been implemented to provide support for taskbar border color, parent taskbar border color, progress bar border color, parent progress bar border color, baseline color and taskbar foreground color.

### Bug fixes
{:#gantt-bug-fixes}

* \#149895 - Issue with day header format in week schedule mode has been fixed, now we can provide any standard day header format.
* \#149731 - Issue with calculating incorrect end date for taskbars while setting holidays has been fixed.
* \#149885 - Issue in rendering task names along with taskbars, when schedule start date is greater than taskbar start date, has been fixed.
* \#149441 - Overlapping issue with longer task names with taskbars and resource names has been fixed.
* \#149154 - Issue when providing datetime for taskbars with seconds in hour-minute schedule mode has been fixed.
## Grid


### Bug Fixes
{:#grid-bug-fixes}


* \#149195 - Print window reloading is now prevented when printing the Grid element in Internet Explorer.
* \#148382 - While using Locale with batch editing edited value saved properly.
* \#148404 - IgnoreCase is now set according to the FilteredColumns.MatchCase property.  
* \#149158 - No misalignment issue when enable scrolling while rendering Grid inside Tab control.
* \#149413 - While rendering the Grid inside jQuery Tab, the last records are showing properly when the AllowTextWrap and Scrolling properties are enabled.
* \#148561 - Searching is working fine when unobtrusive mode is enabled.
* \#148422 - Server side filtering is working properly when FilterType is FilterBar.
* \#148410 - Formatting is now applied properly while editing Dropdown column.
* \#149140 - Edited value is selected properly in Dropdown when special characters present in Datasource.
* \#150054 - Now expandable scroller does not move when click the scroller for child Grid.
* \#149580 - Grid context menu is working properly when using ContextMenuItems property.
* \#148649 - Provided support to disable complex predicates generation for blank filter in Excel styled filter. 
* \#149140 - Dropdown is now selecting the pre-selected value while editing in Grid.
* \#150251 - Server-side operation is performed properly when the DataSource is given with the string value.
* \#150011 - Provided Support to use text & value pair as Name & ID in ForeignKeyAdaptor dropdown EditParams.
* \#147764 - Provided Enum Support for type of Grid columns.
* \#148289 - Improved row selection performance in IE browser.
* \#149569 - Input element is focusing properly in Dialog edit box.
* \#149518 - Prevented Grid post to server while performing the custom filtering operation in Excel filter without selecting any of the suggestions.
* \#145741 - Responsiveness is working properly while resizing the window after updating Scroller via `setModel`.
* \#150517 - Vertical scrollbar does not cover the Grid content while resizing browser window.
 
### Breaking Changes
{:#grid-breaking-changes}

* In Grid, now the empty row will be prevented from saving and internal validation message will be thrown. At least one value must be provided to save the record.

## Predictive Analytics

### Features
{:#predictive-analytics-features}

* Added support for PMML files generated by SAS for the following models:

* Association Rules
* Clustering model
* Neural network model
* Regression model
* Tree model

* Added support to provide input data as “ExpandoObject” and “Dictionary” object in GetResult() method.

* Added support to provide input PMML file as “TextReader” object for PMML Evaluator.

* Added support to perform PMML Schema validation on input PMML.

* Tree model result returns “Predicted node” and “path” ID with predicted result.

* Association rules model result returns “Confidence” value.

## Presentation

### Bug Fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}

* Not supported exception is no longer thrown while cloning a PowerPoint presentation with charts.


## Ribbon

### Features
{:#ribbon-features}

* \#149050 -  Tooltip support provided for expand/collapse button. 
* \#149979 -  Localization support provided for Ribbon.

## Schedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#schedule-bug-fixes}

* \#149010 - When the sample is hosted in server, appointments are filtering correctly.
