---
title       : Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC 2015 Vol 4 (Service Pack 2) Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC 2015 Vol 4 (Service Pack 2) Release Notes
platform    : ejmvc
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date="March 4, 2016" version="v13.4.0.63" %} 








## Chart

### Bug Fixes
{:#chart-bug-fixes}

* \#150628 -  Marker for radar chart is now visible on redraw.
## CircularGauge

### Bug Fixes
{:#circulargauge-bug-fixes}

* \#150339 -  Fixed the exception, while setting "ShowLabels" to false in scales.
## DocIO

### Bug Fixes
{:#docio-bug-fixes} 

* \#149223 - Word documents with huge content are now converted to PDF without hang in a reasonable time.
* \#149496 - Word document layout options are now preserved properly in the generated DOCX document.
* \#149192 - Table border is now preserved properly while converting HTML to Word document.
* \#151035, \#151119 - `An item with the same key has already been added.` exception is no longer thrown while Mail merging.
* `TextBefore` and `TextAfter` properties of merge fields are now preserved properly.
## Gantt

### Bug fixes
{:#gantt-bug-fixes}

* \#150568 : Now the task bars color is applied properly when you set the color for a task bar in `QueryTaskbarInfo` event, after disabling the `ShowTaskNames` property dynamically.
* \#150396 : Issue in rendering Gantt with self-referential data source while setting `PredecessorMapping` value as null or empty string has been fixed.
* \#150640 : Issue with date calculation while providing date time in 24 hours format has been fixed.
* \#150358 : Issue while rendering Gantt without horizontal scroll bar in chart section has been fixed
* \#150188 : Now in add dialog, options for baseline start date and baseline end date fields will not appear, after disabling the `RenderBaseline` property dynamically.
* \#151189 : Issue with rendering Gantt while disabling `ShowProgressStatus` property, has been fixed.

## Grid


### Bug Fixes
{:#grid-bug-fixes}


* \#151362 - Dropdown will display properly, when editing the foreign key column with `editParams` in dropdown.
* \#150517 - Scroller is refreshed while adding a new row in empty Grid.
* \#150631 - Empty record row size is smaller than the other rows issue has been fixed.
* \#151305 - Exporting is working when after filtered with ForeignKey column.
* \#150769 - Provided Localization support for Grid Exporting.
* \#150838 - Custom filter keeps the Datepicker in en-US issue has been fixed.
* \#150692 - Tooltip is showing when enabled the ~EllipsisWithTooltip clip mode property in IE browser only.
* \#150598 - Misalignment in ~StackedHeader while column not in categories issue has been fixed.
* \#150596 - The edited row will not replaced by the next record after performing update operation with sorted columns in dialog edit mode.
* \#150054 - Now expandable scroller will move, when click the scroller for child Grid.
* \#149694 - Server side action is triggered once while performing update operation with sorted columns.
* \#150201 - Date column: server side filtering is working when filtering more than one column.
* \#148133 - Before hitting the actionFailure event, the editForm is closed issue has been fixed.
 
### Breaking Changes
{:#grid-breaking-changes}

* In Grid, the properties TemplateID and IsUnbound has been deprecated.

## PDF

### Features
{:#pdf-features}

* \#147618 - Support to timestamp the existing PDF document is added.
* Support for named destination is added.
## Ribbon

### Features
{:#ribbon-features}

* \#146109 - Defaults settings has been provided commonly to the button controls.

### Breaking changes
{:#ribbon-breaking-changes}

* `AllowResizing` property has been deprecated, instead `IsResponsive` property has been introduced.
