---
title       : Essential Studio 2015 Vol 3 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio 2015 Vol 3 Release Notes
platform    : aspnetmvc
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date="October 1, 2015" version="v13.3.0.7" %} 





## Accordion

### Bug fixes
{:#accordian-bug-fixes}

* \#141375- 'HeightAdjustMode' (Fill and Auto) API now works properly.

### Features
{:#accordian-features}

* \#140303 - Accordion provides option to add new items dynamically by using the "addItem" method
## Barcode

### Bug fixes
{:#barcode-bug-fixes}

* \#140125 - Data Matrix barcode with large size could be detected.
## Chart

### Features
{:#chart-features}

* Provided support for vertical chart.

* Provided support for SmartLabel in Cartesian axis.

* Provided support for highlight/selection in cluster mode.

* Provided support for hiding the axis title.

* Provided support for binding fill color and text for point from datasource.

### Bug fixes
{:#chart-bug-fixes}

* \#143230 - Currency format will now work in tooltip template.

* \#140909 - Pie animation is now completed  when the chart is updated sequentially.

* \#142442 - Now the range for axis can be changed on redraw.

* \#140882 - Now the interval for date time axis is calculated based on data.

* \#140614 - EmptyPoint is now working in KO binding.

* \#140577 - Chart is now working when initializing using ng-repeat in AngularJS.

* \#141515 - Trackball is now proper when the chart is rendered with bootstrap.

* \#142964 - Center alignment for the subtitle is now working

### Breaking changes
{:#chart-breaking-changes}

* Secondary axes in chart will visible only when it is bound to any series or indicator.

* When Row count and column count in legend are same, then legend will get plotted based on column count, when its position is top or bottom and it will get plotted based on row count, when its position is right or left.

## CheckBox

### Bug fixes
{:#checkbox-bug-fixes}

* \#141680- Checkbox value is not posted now when it is unchecked in unobtrusive enabled state.

* \#140259- The indeterminate state now gets updated in args.model.checkState(Change Event).

## DateTimePicker

### Bug fixes
{:#datetimepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#F119713- Able to change the next month in DatePicker and DateTimePicker while including "site.css" file.

## Diagram

### Features
{:#diagram-features}

* \#143613 - Option to read/change the scroll status is added.
* \#143039,\#117480,\#126648-Option to show tooltip on mouse over is added.
* \#139520,\#142238 - Undo redo support for client side APIs is added.
* \#141800 - Option to nudge/drop elements only to the allowable region of swimlane is added.
* \#142568 - API support to set CSS style properties is added.
* \#142737 - AngularJS binding support to render HTML/native node is provided.
* \#143075 - Option to identify the drag completed state is provided.
* \#139999 - Event support is added to notify when a node is dropped over another object.
* \#103189 - Radial tree layout support is added.

### Bug fixes
{:#diagram-bug-fixes}

* \#142110- data type for the Nodes/connectors properties is changed.
* \#141306- Delete key works fine now, after performing save and load operation.

### Breaking changes
{:#diagram-breaking-changes}

* diagramModel.SelectorConstraints is depreciated. Instead of that, use diagramModel.SelectedItems.constraints. 
* diagramModel.ShowTooltip is depreciated. Instead of that, use diagramModel.Tooltip and SelectedItems.Tooltip. 
* diagramModel.TooltipTemplateId is depreciated. Instead of that, use SelectedItems.Tooltip.TemplateId.
## DocIO

### Features
{:#docio-features}

* \#141411 - Added support to preserve form fields from HTML to Word conversion.

* \#141411 - Added support to preserve fields from HTML to Word and vice versa.

### Bug fixes
{:#docio-bug-fixes}

* \#143425 - Exception is no more thrown in nested Mail merge with Implicit data.

* \#143741 - .NET Native compilation warning is no more shown in CompoundFile.Base.

* \#142221 - Table content preservation issue is now resolved during Mail merge in Word 2010.

* \#142950 - Upper format preservation issue is now resolved in merge field.

* \#142985 - Null reference exception is no more thrown in FindSingleLine method.

* \#142929 - Number format preservation issue is resolved in UpdateDocumentFields method.

* \#142913 - Decimal separator preservation issue is resolved in Word to PDF conversion.

* \#141411 - Table Cell preservation issue is resolved in HTML to Word conversion.

* \#144344 - Null reference exception is no more thrown while inserting IF Field in DocIO.

* \#142604 - Preservation issues are resolved in Word to PDF conversion.

* \#143089 - StackOverflowException is not thrown now in Word to PDF conversion using DocIO.

* \#142004 - Endnote missing issue in Word to PDF conversion is fixed now.

* \#141858 - Spacing issue in Word to PDF conversion due to TableCell "hideMark" property has not parsed is fixed now.

* \#141017 - Page number and number of pages preservation issue in Word to PDF conversion is fixed now.

* \#141029 - Content preservation issue in Word document to PDF conversion is fixed now.

* \#141017 - Header content center Alignment issue in Word to PDF conversion is fixed now.

* \#140858 - Image preservation issue in Word to PDF conversion is resolved.

* \#140845 - Table alignment and header image position issue in Word to PDF conversion is fixed now.

* \#140552 - List, Header and Footer preservation issues in Word document to PDF conversion is resolved.

* \#140397 - Tab preservation issue with Mail merge data in Word to PDF conversion is fixed now.

* \#140434 - Page break preservation issue in Word to PDF conversion is resolved.

* \#140238 - Bold preservation issue in Word to PDF conversion is resolved.

* \#140046 - Textbox border preservation, table position and exception issue in Word to PDF conversion is resolved.

* \#140775 - Border preservation issue with div tag in HTML to Word document conversion is resolved now.

* \#140693 - Content preservation issues in HTML to Word document conversion is resolved.

* \#142498 - Boolean properties preservation issue in text format while open and save the Word document is resolved.

* \#142407 - Hanging issue in Word to Image conversion is fixed.

* \#142101 - Reference field and TOC page number preservation issues are fixed.

* \#140671 - Hanging issue while updating TOC is resolved.

* \#141795 - Table cell content loses issue when cloning and saving in DOC format Word document is resolved.

* \#141736 - Null reference exception no longer occurs while saving the document.

* \#141351 - Header content and pages increased issue while updating document fields in DOC format Word document is resolved.

* \#141119 - Table preservation issue after importing the document is resolved now.

* \#141091 - Issue with Numbering styles have been duplicated when importing the document content is resolved now.

* \#141020 - Null Reference Exception is no longer thrown when SDTContent property is null.

* \#140621 - Document corruption issue while cloning the document contents to destination document is fixed now.

* \#140477 - Footnote number preservation issue in DOC format Word document is fixed.

* \#139214 - Loading the generated document no longer throws Error Message.

* \#138961 - Corruption and Macro preservation issue while saving in DOCM format Word document has been resolved.

* \#139071, \#137971 - "IndentFromLeft" property value is now set to zero.

* \#142765 - Online image path is now preserved in DocIO library.

* \#141779 - Out of memory exception is not raised now, while updating Table of contents using DocIO.

* \#140582 - Highlight color preservation issue in RTF is fixed.

* \#141302 - Replace functionality is now working properly when the corresponding item is previously cloned using DocIO.

* \#141491 - List preservation issue while inserting HTML Formatted string is fixed.

* \#141530 - Nested IF field result preservation issue in Word to HTML conversion is fixed.

* \#143041 - Hanging issue in Word document to PDF conversion is fixed.

* \#143827 - Font name preservation issue with bullet list character during RTF to DOCX conversion.
## Essential PDF

### Bug fixes
{:#essential-pdf-bug-fixes}

* \#143150 - HTML to PDF conversion takes more time and never finishes issue is now resolved.

* \#143004 - Dynamically added columns are now visible while using PDF Grid.

* \#139960 - Getting error when try to add the new signature field in existing PDF document is now resolved .

* \#139016 - Exception occurs while converting XPS to PDF is now resolved.

* \#140847 - Data is preserved when apply flatten to form fields in particular PDF document.

* \#141936 - Getting XMP is not defined exception when load the particular document is now resolved .

* \#142394 - Font has been modified when draw the graphic elements into the particular loaded document is now resolved.

* \#141841 - Exception occurs while loading a PDF document is now resolved.

* \#142220,\#142251 - Images are not corrupted while drawing a particular TIFF image to PDF document.

* \#141852 - ArgumentOutOfRangeException no more occurs when loading a particular PDF document.

* \#141850 - Text Position issue no more occurs while setting a value to PdfLoadedTextbox.

* \#141860 - Getting wrong PDF fields issue is resolved while trying to get the fields after removing it from the LoadedDocument.

* \#140715 - Exception does not occur while getting the PDF Bookmark destination.

* \#140311 - Index out of range exception no more occurs while merging the particular PDF document.

* \#140266 - While flattening the form fields, double quotes changes to question mark issue is now resolved.

* \#142154 - Getting wrong bookmark title for particular document is resolved.

* \#141337 - Signature field verification issue while merging the document is now resolved.

* \#140839 - Image is visible in PDF page while drawing.

* \#140362,\#142054 - Exception does not occur while merging the signed PDF document.

* \#140267,\#140740 - Exception no more occurs while disabling EnableCache in PdfDocument.

* \#137634 - PDF Grid cell contents are displayed properly when font size is set equal to the grid cell heights.

* \#141837,\#141620 - Additional pages are not added while converting HTML to PDF by using WebkitHtmlConvert.

* \#142337 - When using WebkitHtmlConverter, CSS styles can be applied.

* \#138846 - Content preservation(Bold style and list bullet missing) issue in EMF to PDF conversion is resolved.

* \#141635 - Long text does not break when the child grid is embed into parent grid.

* \#139960 - Signature fields are deleted properly when removing the field from existing document.

* \#139960 - Signature fields are duplicated issue while opening and saving the signed document is resolved.

* \#135693 - Getting blank white spaces in both corners of PDF document when converting HTML to PDF.

### Features
{:#essential-pdf-features}

* \#138123,\#118874,\#138077-Implemented Event Handler for PdfHtmlTextElement.
## FileExplorer

### Bug fixes
{:#fileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#141095- The dialog box can now be read properly after copying and pasting.

### Features
{:#fileexplorer-features}

* \#141095 - provided support to display the icons shown in thumbnail view of the FileExplorer like windows explorer.

* \#140310 - FileExplorer supports auto upload option by using the "autoUpload" API.
## Grid

### Bug fixes
{:#grid-bug-fixes}

* \#141556 - Script error thrown when `VirtualScrolling` enabled and binding data to grid using adaptor

* \#143923 - Script error is now fixed in excel filter while binding the empty `DataSource`.

* \#143535 - CSS is now added properly in Child grid pager.

* \#143535 - Misalignment issue is resolved in child grid while enabling the scrolling.

* \#143693 - On printing, the Grid does not throw a script in the `AllowScrolling` Sample.

* \#143693 - DateTime Filtering is now working in OdataV4.

* \#143540 - Delete operation now works when binding the remote date.

* \#143208 - Confirmation dialog box is now shown while clicking cancel button in batch editing.

* \#143224 - Bootstrap class properties are not overridden now in Edit form.

* \#142934 - Issue of ~EditTemplate column in `DialogTemplate` is fixed now.

* \#143066, \#143314 - Script error occurs no more when using question mark in headerText of template column.

* \#142861, \#143225 - `FilteredColumns` under `FilterSettings` in Wrapper are included.

* \#142556 - ~Waiting-pop up is now hidden while hiding the grid.

* \#141223- Localization support provided for `ColumnChooser`.

* \#140968, \#141431- Search details are now maintained in the grid model.

* \#140939- Script error is no longer thrown when `Editing` parent record while child grid expanded.

* \#140818- OK button is disabled after several search operations in excel filter issue is fixed.

* \#140808- Context menu issue with boolean column is resolved.

* \#140680- Only the child grid context menu gets open while using the `DetailTemplate`.

* \#140513- Edited record is now updated in the Database.

* \#140699- No longer the Exception is thrown while enabling the `Summary` and bind the data source dynamically.

* \#140459- Edit action now works when clicking the icon in unbound column.

* \#140459- Localization support is provided for the `ContextMenu` options.

* \#140469- No longer the script error is thrown when you set `AllowSelection` as false in ~RecordDoubleClick event.

* \#140481- `InlineFormTemplate` editing is now working properly while using the `startEdit` method.

* \#140001- Scroller is slow on IE 11 browser issue is fixed now

* \#138657- Grid gets refreshed when you use `nvarchar` type to primary field on adding the record

* \#139293- `RowSelected` event is triggered without any rows in Grid Content issue is fixed

* \#139293- Script error is no longer thrown after binding the null data to Grid `DataSource`.

* \#140004- Data annotation is now working properly for auto-generate columns.

* \#136665- The Filtered value is now persists in excel filter after page unload when using `EnablePersistence`.

* \#142556- Waiting-pop up is now hidden while hiding the grid.

* \#142680- Syntax error occurs no more while creating a new instance of ej Query.

* \#142553- Scroller issue with more columns while using `resizeToFit` is fixed.

* \#142423- Grid performance is slow while editing row in multi columns with multi editing types issue is now resolved.

* \#142531, \#143698- Incorrect group count value does not occur any more while using remote data binding.

* \#142364- Misalignment issue is resolved now.

* \#I141729- While editing, dropdown does not select the pre-selected value when the width is not mentioned in column issue is now resolved.

* \#142264- Boolean column values are checked now while using the complex binding.

* \#142263- `DataManager` control is now working in Unobtrusive mode.

* \#142147- Filtered `queryString` value is passed to controller by default.

* \#141846- Filter option handling is fixed now.

* \#142105- Reorder is now working when the helper element is dropped at the top of the header cell.

* \#142087- Now, it is able to provide validation message using DataAnnotation.

* \#141847- Sort icon is set properly while passing direction in the capital letter of `sortColumn` method.

* \#141234- Characters '\t\n' escaped properly when using the Serializer.

* \#141600- `RemoteSaveAdaptor` updates the grid with the value from server.

* \#141528- Column misalignment is resolved now when editing in the `DetailTemplate` sample.

* \#141403- `SelectedRowIndex` returns correct index while grouping with summary.

* \#143535- CSS is now added properly in Child grid pager.

* \#143535- Misalignment issue is resolved in child grid while enabling the scrolling.

* \#143693- On printing, the Grid does not throw a script in the `AllowScrolling` Sample.

* \#143693- DateTime Filtering is now working in OdataV4.

* \#143540- Delete operation now works when binding the remote date.

* \#143208- Confirmation dialog box is now shown while clicking cancel button in `Batch` editing.

* \#143224- Bootstrap class properties are not overridden now in Edit form.

* \#143119- Issue in the selection of data is resolved.

* \#143119- Wrong value is not shown now while selecting the data from the bottom to the top.

* \#142934- Issue of `EditTemplate` column in `DialogTemplate` is fixed now.

* \#143066, \#143314- Script error occurs no more when using question mark in `HeaderText` of template column.

* \#142992- Exception occurs no more while using Special characters in `ColumnChooser`.


### Breaking changes
{:#grid-breaking-changes}

* The API `SearchFields` has been renamed to Fields and `SearchKey` has been renamed to Key
## ListBox

### Features
{:#listbox-features}

* \#141696 - Provided incremental search option that allows navigating to the corresponding item based on the character typed.

## Maps

### Features
{:#maps-features}

* \#143332- Provided support for get the coordinates of the Map

* \#143479- Provided support for Select the map shapes using drag and drop

### Bug fixes
{:#maps-bug-fixes}

* \#143235 – Center position not working for OSM issue has been fixed
## MaskEditTextbox

### Bug fixes
{:#maskedittextbox-bug-fixes}

* \#141006, \#141059- Value is now maintained in the MaskEdit control.
## OLAP Chart

### Features
{:#olapchart-features}

* \#132818- 3D visualization of OlapChart is supported now.
## OLAP Client

### Features
{:#olapclient-features}

* Support to view MDX query in dialog has been provided.

* Auto Execute support has been provided.

* Toggle Axis support has been provided.

### Bug fixes
{:#olapclient-bug-fixes}

* \#141687-Exception is not thrown while exporting an empty report.
## PDF
## PivotGrid

### Features
{:#pivotgrid-features}

* \#141759,\#142897- Defer Update support has been provided.

* Relational datasource bound to PivotGrid can be exported to Word, PDF and Excel documents.
## Predictive Analytics

### Features
{:#predictive-analytics-features}

* Provided support for Spark PMML models
## Presentation

### Bug fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}

* \#143294 - Chart data gets updated only by editing the excel chart data issue is now resolved.

* \#142990 - Placeholder type showing 0 instead of Object type issue is resolved while using the presentation containing Object placeholder.

* \#142867 - Iteratively replacing the images in cloned slides is now working.

* \#142791 - Inserting a cloned slide in presentation is now working.

* \#142619 - Modifying the date in chart series with Presentation APIs does not lead to document corruption.

* \#141543 - Issue in ImageData property of IPicture is now resolved.

* \#141185 - Document is not corrupted while creating a presentation document by adding the slides of an existing presentation document.

* \#140442 - Slide item type for Shape is changed.

* \#140489 - Culture variant issue in Office Chart library is now resolved.

* \#140674 - Chart Axis issue in Office Chart library is now resolved.

### Breaking changes
{:#presentation-breaking-changes}

* The classes "BuiltInDocumentProperties", "DocumentPropertyImpl", "CustomDocumentProperties" will be no longer available

* The classes "ClipboardData", "StreamHelper" and "DlsConstants" will be no longer available

* The class "ChartsCollection" will be no longer available

* The properties "LayoutSlides" and "Masters" in Presentation class will be no longer available

* The enumerations "MirrorType" and "VarEnum" will be no longer available

* The method "Dispose()" in "Presentation" class will be no longer available

* The method "FromStream(Stream,bool,bool)" in "Image" class will be no longer available

* The interface "IBaseSlide" has been moved from namespace Syncfusion.Presentation.Internals to namespace Syncfusion.Presentation

* The property "UnderLineColor" in "TextPart" class has been modified to "UnderlineColor"

* The property "UnderLine" in "IFont" interface has been modified as "Underline"

* The class "TablesCollection" has been modified to "TableCollection"

* The interface "IOfficeChart" has been modified to "IPresentationChart"

* The interface "IOfficeCharts" has been modified to "IPresentationCharts"

* The properties "PageSetup" and "PivotChartType" in "IOfficePageSetup" interface will be no longer available

* The properties "ShowAllFieldButton", "ShowAxisFieldButton", "ShowLegendFieldButton", "ShowReportFilterFieldButton" and "ShowValueFieldButton"  in "IOfficeChart" interface will be no longer available

* The property "DrawTickLabels" in "IOfficeChartBorder" interface will be no longer available

* The property Alignment in "IOfficeChartCategoriesAxis" and "IOfficeChartSeriesAxis" interfaces will be no longer available

* The properties "BackgroundMode" and "IsAutoMode" in "IOfficeChartTextArea" interface will be no longer available

* The enumeration element "RectangleStyle" in "OfficeRectangleStyle" enumeration will be no longer available

* The properties "CrossesValue", "IsReversed" and "LabelFrequency" in "IOfficeChartCategoryAxis" interface will be no longer available

* The properties "IsReversed", "LabelFrequency" and "TickMarkFrequency" in "IOfficeChartSeriesAxis" interface will be no longer available

* The property "IsVeryColor" in "IOfficeChartFormat" interface  will be no longer available

* The property "Fill" of type "IOfficeFill" in "IOfficeChartGridLines" interface will be no longer available

* The properties "Has3DProperties", "HasInterior" and "Interior" in "IOfficeChartGridLines" interface will be no longer available

* The property "UnderLine" in "IOfficeChartTextArea" interface has been modified to "Underline"

## RadialMenu

### Features
{:#radialmenu-features}

* Added methods to enable and disable menu items.
## RangeNavigator

### Breaking changes
{:#rangenavigator-breaking-changes}

* Data type of LabelPlacement  property in HigherLevel and LowerLevel Label setting has been changed from from string to RangeNavigatorLabelPlacement Enum.

* Data type of ValueType  property has been changed from string to RangeNavigatorValueType Enum.

* Data type of RangePadding  property has been changed from string to RangePadding Enum.
## ReportViewer

### Bug fixes
{:#reportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#142785 - Layout alignment issues in report have been fixed.

* \#140850 - List multiple page now splits properly  in print layout.

* \#142974 - Cropping issue of Header text in Tablix is resolved now.

* \#142974 - Exception no more thrown in UpdatePageModel factory.

* \#140850 - Exporting alignment issue while increasing the inner tablix records is fixed now.

* \#142248 - Expand/Collapse is now working when click on the drill down icon.

* \#142222 - Issue in Stream property return null value while loading RDL reports is fixed.

* \#142124, F119770 - Support provided for stream property in SubReportModel.

* \#144207 - Chart does not throw exception when placed inside group items.
## Ribbon

### Breaking changes
{:#ribbon-breaking-changes}

* BackStagePage dependent properties has been modified as BackstageSettings

* ApplicationTab Type property modified into enum data as 'menu' and 'backstage'

* itemID property has been modified as menuItemID to bind the application menu.

* Client side events prefix 'ClientSideOn' is removed - BackstageItemClick, GalleryItemClick, TabAdd, TabClick, TabCreate, TabRemove, TabSelect, ToggleButtonClick,GroupExpand,Destroy,BeforeTabRemove, GroupClick
## RichTextEditor

### Bug fixes
{:#richtextedior-bug-fixes}

* \#143776 - Can get content of RTE in form postback while using setHtml method.

* \#135320 - Enabled font size/ color/family options in RTE.

### Features
{:#richtextedior-features}

* Word count option is added in RTE footer that displays the number of words present in RTE content.

* Default focus is provided in initial render.

* An option is provided to retrieve the encoded content from RTE.

* Automatic height adjust option is provided such that, when you type/paste large contents, it increases the height automatically based on the content instead of scrollers.

* Paste/Replace the content option is provided that helps in pasting the content at current cursor position/selection.

* Support provided to get current RTE's iframe document.

* Support provided to get range object from RTE.

* Support provided to select the particular range of contents and also all the contents in RTE.

* Support provided to view the RTE in full screen.

### Breaking changes
{:#richtextedior-breaking-changes}

* enableToolbarItem, disableToolbarItem, removeToolbarItem public method's arguments are changed. Instead of passing controlID+Tool as argument, you can directly pass the Tool itself.

* Previously, showWordCont displays the number of characters in RTE. Now, it displays the number of words present in RTE.

* Default value of the showHtmlSource property is changed to false.

* Default value of the showClearAll property is changed to false.

* iframeAttribute property is renamed to iframeAttributes. Now we can apply any kind of attributes to the iframe's body element using this .
## Schedule

### Features
{:#schedule-features}

* The Agenda View feature allows you to display the list of appointments in a grid-like view, categorized based on the dates and resources levels.

* Tooltip feature allows you to display the schedule appointments details on appointment mouse over. It can be customized using template.

* First day of the week feature allows the Scheduler to modify the first day of the week and the workweek. In week view and workweek view, the next consecutive seven or five days from the specified start day are displayed on the Scheduler respectively.

* The Workweek feature allows the user to customize the display of working days with the set of user-defined day's collection.

* The user is allowed to provide any kind of data type values to the id field of the Scheduler appointments. The GUID has been generated internally for each scheduler appointment.

### Bug fixes
{:#schedule-bug-fixes}

* \#144159 - Can get the next date value within the navigation event.

* \#143556 - The method to refresh the schedule data with extra parameters pass to controller is provided.

* \#141765, \#140424 - Support provided for refreshing the schedule data.

* \#141911, \#142476, \#141881 - Issue in displaying the Appointment interval time while setting the StartTimeZOne and EndTimeZone is now resolved.

* \#143879 - Script error does not occur while changing the recurrence normal appointment to all day recurrence appointment in Custom Window of MVC Schedule.
## TreeView

### Bug fixes
{:#treeview-bug-fixes}

* \#143360- In DragStop event, parent id of the current targeted element is rendered now.

### Features
{:#treeview-features}

* \#143248,  \#143250 - TreeView parent node's checked/unchecked state is based on the state of the child nodes on control initialization.

* \#142081, \#143134 - TreeView provides option to insert node in between by using the "insertBefore", "insertAfter" methods.

* \#124441 - Controls the expand of nodes whether it allows single or multiple expansion of nodes by using the "EnableMultipleExpand" property.

* \#118757, \#131194 - Provided support to ensure visibility of the tree nodes by using the "ensureVisible()" method.

### Breaking changes
{:#treeview-breaking-changes}

* \#142197 - Previously, the TreeView persisted the nodes collection based on the tree nodes index, now it is modified based on "id" of the nodes.

* Previous node processing methods accepted arguments as a string with the hashtag ("#") symbol. Now it has been optimized where the string is passed only in the arguments. For example, the collapse node syntax was collapseNode("#node1") before; now the syntax has been modified as collapseNode("node1") (or) collapseNode($("#node1")).

## Uploadbox

### Breaking changes
{:#uploadbox-breaking-changes}

* 'DragAreaText' PropertiesBuilder is changed to 'DropAreaText'.

* 'MultipleFilesSelection' property default value - false is changed to true.

* In FileSelect event selected files will be available in 'argument.files'.
## WaitingPopUp

### Bug fixes
{:#waitingpopup-bug-fixes}

* \#142093- WaitingPopup is now shown while rendering inside the Bootstrap modal.
## XlsIO

### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#137871	- Text alignment differs while exporting to PDF is now resolved.

* \#139737	- Data validations in extension list is no longer lost while resaving in XlsIO.

* \#139986	- Excel to PDF Conversion process hangs is now resolved.

* \#140408	- Calibri Unicode characters are now properly converted in ExcelToPDF.

* \#140408	- Alignment is changed while converting Calibri Unicode characters to PDF is now resolved.

* \#140485	- Background color is missing in XlsIO is now resolved.

* \#140547	- ArgumentOutOfRangeException is no more thrown when converting a Excel file to PDF in Italian culture.

* \#140873	- File no longer gets corrupted due to repeated data validations during CopyTo().

* \#140888	- Cell Formatting is now proper in XlsIO.

* \#141140, \#119555 - Null reference exception thrown while converting Excel to PDF is now fixed.

* \#141188	- Excel overlapping scenario using merged ranges is now resolved.

* \#141200	- RTF issues with line breaks are resolved.

* \#141287, \#143511 - ParseException is no more thrown at parsing the formula of an Excel file.

* \#141357	- FormatException is no more thrown when converting an Excel file to PDF.

* \#141360	- Date format loss in display text having formulas in XlsIO is now resolved.

* \#141373	- ApplicationException is no more thrown while opening a file in XlsIO.

* \#141529	- Time Formatting issue in XlsIO is now resolved.

* \#141783, \#142874, \#144317 - DataValidations are missed while resaving in XlsIO is now resolved.

* \#141835, \#142140 - XlsIO throws out of memory exception and takes a long time to perform AutoFitColumns is now fixed.

* \#141904	- Chart Data Range is updated properly while inserting a new range.

* \#142117, \#144113 - Custom DateTime formatting issues in XlsIO is now resolved.

* \#142165	- Performance issue while accessing IRange.RowHeight property in XlsIO is now resolved.

* \#142285	- Number format contains escape sequences issue is now fixed.

* \#142507	- Display Text Property dropping last "0" character in cell is now resolved.

* \#142530	- Protecting an unprotected sheet, no more throws an exception in binary file.

* \#142538	- RTF alignment support is now provided in ExcelToPDFConversion.

* \#142611	- Row height is properly updated in copied worksheets.

* \#142740, \#143592 - Parsing a workbook with shapes no more throws argument exception.

* \#142755	- ParseException is no more thrown while accessing IRange.ConditionalFormats property in XlsIO.

* \#142811	- Border is incorrect on merged cells in ExcelToPDF Conversion is now resolved.

* \#142816	- PrintArea is null while changing the workbook version is now resolved.

* \#142969	- Support is now provided to parse and serialize the chart caches in XlsIO.

* \#143074	- Getting different row height, when row contain rotated text as merged cell in XlsIO is now resolved.

* \#143378	- Named range now returns proper value in XlsIO.

* \#143421	- Chart is now preserved while passing file stream in ExcelToPDFConverter.

* \#143460	- Access violation exception is no more thrown while closing the workbook.

* \#143661	- Chart position is now retained properly in Excel to PDF conversion.

* \#143769	- NullReferenceException is no more thrown while converting excel to PDF.

* \#143769	- Scale with document option is now working  properly in excel to PDF conversion.

* \#144471	- The outlineWrapper range is now properly updated while modifying the rows with in the group.

* Issue with AutoFitColumns and AutoFitRow() method is fixed.

* RightBorder issue in ExcelToPDFConversion is now resolved.

* DataBar formatting is not applied to cell even if the cell value is blank or 0.

* Exception is no more thrown while collapsing the inner outline level.

* Issue in CopyStyles Options in XlsIO is now resolved.

* NullReferenceException is no more thrown while opening file with background image.

* Rounding value is now properly working in XlsIO.

* InvalidOperationException is no more thrown while parsing CF of type 3Stars IconSet.

* Display text is changed after creating the table format for the range is now resolved.

* ArgumentOutOfRange Exception is no more  thrown while adding empty formula of extern book.

* Table style issues in ExcelToPDFConversion is now resolved.

* Radar chart is now preserved properly while resaving an excel document.

* Auto-Filter returns invalid results in XlsIO is now resolved.

* First Condition property with AutoFilters is now working properly.

* SecondCondition property with AutoFilters is now working properly.

* IsFirstCondition is now working in AutoFilters.

* IsAnd property is working Incorrectly in AutoFilters is now resolved.

* IsSecondCondition property is  working  properly in AutoFilters.

* Null reference exception is no more thrown while parsing the data bar for Conditional Format.

* Parsing support is now provided for Data bar properties in XlsIO.

* Duplicate CF added is removed, when CF have Data bar type.

* Default conditional value type "Automatic" support is now provided for Data bar in XlsIO.

* Exception is no more thrown at parsing chart sheet.

* Sorting is incorrect when apply sorting for column containing both number and text is  now fixed.

* Applying a cell style removes the existing cell style is resolved.

* Copying and pasting a table with styles is  working properly in XlsIO.

* Destination cell value is cleared when copying a range with CopyStyles option is now resolved.

* Page is Missing in ExcelToPDFConversion is now resolved.

* Chart Area Fill color is now preserved while cloning the workbook.

* RTF support is now provided in HeaderFooter.

* Text missing issue when cell text is move to next page in ExcelToPDFConversion is now resolved.

* Argument out of range exception is no more thrown while opening a CSV file using XlsIO.

* DateTime is serialized when DataValidation AllowType property as Time is now resolved.

* ConditionalFormat is now applied properly in XlsIO.

* IShape.IsShapeVisible property is always true for hidden image is now resolved.

* LeftBorderLineStyle of ExtendedFormatImpl returns wrong value is now fixed.

* XlsIO returns incorrect icon set format style while import on Default is now resolved.

* Reverse order for icon set was not properly handled at parsing is fixed.

* Not a legal oleaut date while opening CSV file is now resolved.

* IRange.Comment property returns value instead of Null is now resolved.

* Conditional Format order is different in XlsIO is now fixed.

* Argument Exception is no more thrown while opening the input file having form Control.

* Chart is preserved properly when an excel file is resaved.

* ThrowNotSavedOnDestroy property while closing a workbook is implemented.

* Styles are preserved even the hyperlinks where removed from the sheet object is now resolved.

* Resaving a file fails to preserve scheme color of a shape is now resolved.
