---
title       : Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC 2016 Vol 1 (Service Pack 1)Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC 2016 Vol 1 (Service Pack 1)Release Notes
platform    : ejmvc
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date="May 3, 2016" version="v14.1.0.46" %} 





## Chart

### Bug Fixes
{:#chart-bug-fixes}

* \#154917 - Trendline is now working properly for unsorted x values.
* \#154857 - Now the spline chart will get exported in excel.
* \#154144 - Data label is now clipped when it exceeds the chart area after zooming.
* \#153987 - Spline series is now working when the data is in string and the axis value type is in double.
* \#153723 - Exception on hovering lengthy legend text is fixed.
* \#154563 - Axis label is now rendering properly after reseting the zooming.
* \#155009 - Trackball is now working fine, when chart is rendered with bootstrap.

## Common

### Bug Fixes
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#155603 – Now the touch actions works properly in IE10 & IE11.
## CurrencyTextbox

### Bug Fixes
{:#currencytextbox-bug-fixes}

* \#153759 – Now able to set the custom 'tabindex' value for CurrencyTextbox control.
## DatePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#datepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#153829 – DatePicker arrow icon misplaced in presence of site.css file has been fixed.
* \#154336 – If the textbox value is empty, previously selected date doesn't maintained with active state in the popup.
## DocIO

### Bug Fixes
{:#docio-bug-fixes}
* \#151174 - Relative position properties are now preserved properly while opening and saving the Word DOCX format document.
* \#155024 - Argument out of range exception is no longer thrown while saving the Word document with charts. 
* \#154762 - Text box internal margins are now preserved properly while saving the Word DOCX format document.
* \#154762 - Cell width for the table containing misaligned cells are now preserved properly in Word to HTML conversion. 
* \#154762 - Line breaks are now preserved properly during Word to HTML conversion.
* \#153445 - Check box size and size type is now properly preserved during Word to HTML conversion and vice versa.
* \#151329 - Line spacing is now preserved properly for paragraphs in HTML to Word conversion.
* \#153445, \#151329 - Paragraph properties such as contextual spacing, keep lines together, keep with next, auto spacing before and after are now preserved properly during Word to HTML conversion and vice versa.
* \#154912 - Argument out of range exception is no longer thrown while converting the Word document containing table without any rows and cells to PDF.
* \#152711 - Table is now positioned properly while converting a particular Word document to PDF.
* \#151613 - Vertical alignment for the table cell is now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document to PDF. 
* \#153645, \#152872 - Tab width is now preserved properly when the paragraph has the horizontal alignment other than left while converting the Word document to PDF.
* \#154514, \#155079 - Null reference exception is no longer thrown while converting a particular Word document to PDF.
* \#152802 - Table is now wrapped around a floating item properly while converting the Word document to PDF. 
* \#154195 - Absolute table with row height greater than page height is now preserved properly while converting the Word document to PDF.
* \#154455 - Text followed by Symbol field is now preserved properly while converting the Word document to PDF.
* \#149223 - Word documents with huge content are now converted to PDF without delays in a reasonable time.
* \#152802 - Table containing vertical merged cell with text direction as vertical are now preserved properly while converting the Word document to PDF.
* \#153645 - Cell width for the table that does not have preferred width is now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document to PDF.
* \#151613 - Now word wraps to new line properly based on non-breaking space while converting a particular Word document to PDF.
* \#151613 - Floating table is now preserved properly while converting the Word document with compatibility option - “don’t break wrapped tables across pages” to PDF.
## Gantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}

* Now performance has been improved while rendering large data with multiple predecessors for each tasks in Gantt.
* \#154812 – Now the placeholder text in the search text box in Gantt will be hidden on mouse click instead of key press event.
* \#152733 – Now Gantt can be displayed in read-only mode by enabling `readOnly` property
* \#146694 – Now it is possible to reorder the Gantt rows by enabling `allowDragAndDrop` property.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#150657 – Now Gantt can be displayed without using `childMapping` property with self-referential datasource.
## Grid


### Bug Fixes
{:#grid-bug-fixes}


* \#148905 - Set the columns `width` on exported document based on columns `width`.
* \#154765 - Need Generic class to perform the CRUD action.
* \#150811 - summary not working in complex binding column in `UrlAdaptor`.  
* \#153050 - CRUD operation not working for Public methods.
* \#154602 - Second line is not displayed to PDF `Exporting`, when using the BR tag in Grid column header.
* \#151374 - `BatchEditing` with Multiple delete support.
* \#155306 - Exporting is not working fine in DataTable with filtered records.
* \#154468 - Need to prevent exporting actions from being persisted – with `enablePersistence`.

 
### Breaking Changes
{:#grid-breaking-changes}

* In Grid, Persisted item in local storage has changed `$ej$+pluginName+id` instead of `pluginName+id`.

## PDF

### Bug Fixes
{:#pdf-bug-fixes} 

* \#153896 - Embedded EMF is now preserved properly while converting Word to PDF.
* \#153816 - TIFF to PDF conversion now works as expected.
* \#153957 - Text is no more clipped when converting XPS to PDF.
* \#153659 - Unexpected token exception is no more thrown when loading a PDF document.
* \#154166 - NullReferenceException is no more thrown when time stamping the digital signature.
* \#151146 - Text is now preserved properly when flattening the form fields.
* \#151146 - Text is now aligned properly when flattening the form fields.
* \#153990 - TypeInitializationException is no more thrown when using PdfTrueTypeFont.
* \#152764 - Document information is no more blank when adding metadata.
* \#153343 - English text is now preserved properly when using CJK fonts.
## Predictive Analytics

### Features
{:#predictive-analytics-features}

* \#154527 - Added support to return output field evaluation results along with Predicted Result.

### Bug Fixes
{:#predictive-analytics-bug-fixes}

* \#154922 - Resolved the scoring procedure issues with mining (Ensemble) model evaluator.
## Presentation

### Bug Fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}
* \#154974 - Application will no longer hangs while opening particular PPTX file.
* \#154335 - Index out of range exception will no longer be thrown while opening PPTX file containing chart sheet in its embedded workbook.
## RangeNavigator

### Bug Fixes
{:#rangenavigator-bug-fixes}

* \#155009 - Exception on setting range in string is fixed.
## ReportViewer

### Features
{:#reportviewer-features}

* \#146074, #146095, #153532 Provided support to retain header visibility while scrolling the `ReportViewer` container.


## Ribbon

### Features
{:#ribbon-features}

* Provided support for RTL mode.

## Schedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#schedule-bug-fixes}

* \#154103 – The problem with recurrence rule which didn’t get exported in ICS files is fixed now.
## TreeGrid

### Bug fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#154122 - Now the expanded state of a parent row will be maintained on resizing browser window, when both `EnableVirtualization` and `EnableCollapseAll` properties are enabled.

## TreeView

### Bug Fixes
{:#treeview-bug-fixes}

* \#154746 – When `EnablePersistence` property is true, able to add/ignore the persistence behavior to TreeView properties with 'DataSource' support.
* \#154336 – Now TreeView node gets collapsed, even `collapseNode()` method called multiple times with `EnableAnimation` property.
## XlsIO

### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#152796 - Ambiguity problem while accessing name of the chart through `IChartShape` is resolved.
* \#154096 - File corruption issue after resaving the file in XlsIO is resolved.
* \#154123 - Null reference exception is no longer thrown while parsing chart series data points.
* \#154057 - Parse exception is no longer thrown while parsing a workbook generated from EPPlus.
* \#153772 - Number format will no longer change inside `ImportArray()` method when it is passed as a parameter.
* \#153616, \#154276 - Issues with conditional formatting is incorrect in HTML conversion are fixed.
* \#152942 - Text clipping is improper in Excel to HTML conversion is fixed.
* \#150880, \#151503 - `FormulaValue` is now updated properly after updating the formula.
* Argument exception is no longer thrown while accessing first formula in data validation.
* Null reference exception is no longer thrown while accessing RTF text.
* `AutoFitColumns` is now working properly for accounting number formats.
* Overflow exception will no longer occur while setting cell reference as formula.
* Argument out of range exception is no longer thrown while setting empty string to `IMigrantRange`.
* Argument out of range exception is no longer thrown when opening the excel file using XlsIO.
* `GetRowHeightInPixels()` method now returns proper row height on opening a file.
* Row values are updated properly after `DeleteRow()`.
* `SerieType` property of chart is now properly updated on resaving XLSX file.
* Auto-fitting rows now returns proper row height in XlsIO.
* `IsSummaryRowBelow` flag in subtotal is now working properly.
* Issues in display text for pre-defined currency number formats are fixed.
* Null reference exception for pivot source range while importing is handled.
