---
title       : Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC  2016 Vol 2(Service Pack 2) Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC  2016 Vol 2(Service Pack 2) Release Notes
platform    : ejmvc
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.2016vol2_sp2_releasedate version="v14.2.0.32" %} 





## Chart

### Bug Fixes
{:#chart-bug-fixes}

* \#162439 - Axis font style will not change while scrolling the chart.
* \#162004 - Last label will not hide while rendering in mobile, when the `LabelPlacement` is `BetweenTicks` .
* \#161632, \#161794 - Zooming is now working properly on canvas mode.
* \#160593 - Stacking Area is now rendering properly, when it has null value.
## CheckBox

### Bug Fixes
{:#checkbox-bug-fixes}

* \#160913 - Now model values can bind with checkbox using `CheckBoxFor` helper.
## Diagram

### Bug fixes
{:#diagram-bug-fixes}

* \#161586 - Issue in serializing the diagram when assign the BPMN object to model's `DefaultSettings.Node` property is fixed.
* \#161586 - Issue in `ParseModel` method while deserializing the label's `margin` property is fixed.
## DocIO

### Features
{:#DocIO-features}

* \#160314 - Support to access comment start and end range has been added.

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#159859 - Text position is now preserved properly while converting Word document to PDF.
* \#160085 - Paragraph contextual spacing is now preserved properly while converting Word document to PDF. 
* \#160703 - Images missing issue has been fixed while converting a particular Word document to PDF.
* \#156913 - Sinhalese text is now preserved properly while converting Word document to PDF. 
* \#159065 - Hyperlinks are now preserved properly while converting Word document to PDF.
* \#161012 - Null reference exception is no longer thrown while opening the RTF file.
* \#161012 - The picture transparency is now preserved properly while converting Word document to PDF.
* \#160467 - Images are now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document to HTML
* \#161130 - Paragraph alignment is now preserved properly while converting Word document to PDF.
* \#160732 - Horizontal lines are now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document to PDF. 
* \#159686 - Images are preserved properly while converting a particular Word document to PDF.
* \#159859 - Image background color is now preserved properly while resaving the Word document. 
* \#160658 - Picture color is now preserved properly while resaving the Word document.
* \#159295 - Image in the header of Word document is now preserved properly while converting Word document to PDF.
* \#161449 - Opening the particular DOCX format document no longer hangs.

## Grid

### Bug Fixes
{:#Grid-bug-fixes}

* \#158393,\#161899 - Script error throws while using `ForeignKey` dataSource as url with empty `DataSource` in Grid.
* \#158658 - Insert index is calculated wrongly when having multiple `PrimaryKeys` .
* \#159299 - `Validation` is not working when culture changes in Grid.
* \#159390, \#160787 - If columns `width` is not specified in Grid, that `column` `width` set as 0px when we render grid with tab control.
* \#159991 - Filtering `ForeignKey` column with incorrect value throws exception.
* \#159991, \#161901 - `MultiSorting` is not working as expected in remote data binding.
* \#160328 - Data annotation support for the type of model properties.
* \#160397 - Multi selected items from dropdown is displayed as single string upon saving in `Batch` edit mode.
* \#160502 - Template definition to be considered while saving in `batch` edit mode.
* \#160622 - Grid `Excel` Export with preceding zero for number `columns` in grid.
* \#160922 - The row height is not refreshed while using responsive grid.
* \#161089 - `CustomAdaptor` is not working while using `OdataAdaptor`.
* \#161146 - If Scrolling enabled in Grid, the grid header and content table width set as 100px when we render grid with tab control.
* \#161146 - Script error throws when we set `EnableVirtualization` as true and empty `DataSource` in virtual Scrolling.
* \#162595 - Throws script error in IE when we enable the `FilterBarTemplate`.
## ListBox

### Bug Fixes
{:#listbox-bug-fixes}

* \#160494 - Issue with getCheckedItems() method's data value and script error with enableItem() method have been fixed.
## PDF

### Bug Fixes
{:#pdf-bug-fixes} 

* \#161994 - Exception is no longer thrown while flattening the form field.
* \#161102 - Shapes are no longer missed while converting EMF to PDF.
* \#158792 - Performance is now improved while merging PDF documents.
* \#160094 - Images are rendered properly while drawing in PDF document.
* \#160057 - NullReferenceException is no longer thrown while merging the PDF document.
* \#159398 - NullReferenceException is no longer thrown while getting the index from page.   
* \#159067 - Fatal error exception is no longer thrown while loading the PDF document.
* \#159859 - Bold texts are now preserved properly while converting EMF to PDF.


## PDF Viewer

### Features 
{:#pdfviewer-features}

* \#149793 - Support for saving the PDF document in ejPdfViewer has been added.
## Predictive Analytics

### Features
{:#predictive-analytics-features}

* \#160092 - Added support for K-Nearest Neighbors model.

## Presentation

### Features
{:#presentation-features}
* \#159550 - Support was now added to mark the PowerPoint Presentation as Final(Non editable)

### Bug Fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}
* \#159312 - PowerPoint presentations will be no longer corrupted while resaving
* \#159309 - PowerPoint presentations will be no longer corrupted while cloning the slides with comments
* \#157742 - The page numbers are now preserved properly while performing Presentation to PDF conversion
* \#157762 ,\#160677  - The existing paragraph font size is now retrieved properly while loading the PowerPoint presentations
* \#157742 - The font size for the contents within table is now retrieved properly while loading the PowerPoint presentations 
* \#160677 - The "FontName" of the paragraph is now retrieved properly while loading the PowerPoint presentations
* \#160677 - The "HorizontalAlignment" value of the shapes are now retrieved properly while loading the PowerPoint presentations
* \#160677 - The "VerticalAlignment" value of the shapes are now retrieved properly while loading the PowerPoint presentations

## RTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#rte-bug-fixes}

* \#159501 - The issue, "First key stroke is ignored when the tab key is pressed in the RTE" has been rectified.
## XlsIO

### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#160083 - Argument exception is no longer thrown while opening an Excel file with charts.
* \#161267 - Issues with conditional format formulas in Excel to HTML conversion are fixed.
* \#160340 - Performance issue in reading values of worksheet when using `UsedRangeIncludesFormatting` is fixed.
* \#152749 - CSV data type preservation issue is fixed.
* \#161558 - Maximum number of extended formats exceeded error is no longer thrown while formatting workbook.
* \#161590 - Issue with memory consumption in Excel To PDF is fixed.
* \#161778 - Invalid cast exception is no longer thrown while performing `FindFirst()` operation.
* \#161670 - Issues with custom date formats in conditional formats are fixed.
* \#159075 - Issue with thousands separator while importing currency value to data table in Slovak culture is fixed.
* \#160320 - Performance issue in `IRange.BorderInside()` for large range is fixed.
* \#160819 - Issue with number format color preservation in Excel To HTML conversion is fixed.
* \#160440 - Corruption issue due to improper reference in formula is fixed.
* \#160440 - Text filter is now case insensitive.
* \#158784 - Files with line break in table column names are no longer corrupted.
* \#160900 - Prompt is raised when closing the generated workbook is fixed.
* \#161684 - Out of memory exception due to large hidden columns in Excel to PDF conversion is resolved.
* \#161628 - Prompt is raised when closing the resaved workbook is fixed.
* \#162364 - Issue with calculation modes is fixed.
* \#159681 - Issue with OLE objects in Spreadsheet viewer is fixed.
* \#160440 - Performance is improved when opening Excel documents with multiple nested formula in filtered column.
* \#160871 - Issues with `AutoFitColumns()` on cells with indent level are fixed.
* \#162348 - Argument out of range exception is no longer thrown while inserting a row.
* \#162365 - Argument out of range exception thrown while opening an Excel file with improper style index is resolved.
* \#157446 - Out of memory exception thrown while converting Excel file with absolute anchored image to PDF is fixed.
