---
title       : Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC 2016 Volume 3 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC 2016 Volume 3 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
platform    : ejmvc
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2016_vol_3_sp1 version=site.version.2016_vol_3_sp1 %} 





## Accordion

### Features
{:#accordian-features}

* \#165359 - Provided support for HeaderTemplate in Accordion
## Button

### Bug Fixes
{:#button-bug-fixes}

* \#165284, \#165568 - Disabled button prevented from Form submission.

## Calculate

### Bug Fixes
{:#calculate-bug-fixes} 

* \#162765 – Formula with Table Named Ranges are now calculated properly.
## Chart

### Bug Fixes
{:#chart-bug-fixes} 
 
* \#165301  - Hyphen character in axis labels are now rendering properly for category axis. 


## CircularGauge

### Bug Fixes
{:#circulargauge-bug-fixes}

* \#165319  - Background color for half-circular gauge is now applied properly.

 
## DatePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#datepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#164310 - Now DatePicker destroyed properly.

## DateTimePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#datetimepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#164006 - DateTimePicker renders properly after postback when custom DateTimeFormat has been given.

## DocIO

### Breaking Changes
{:#DocIO-breaking-changes}

* Default encoding is modified from UTF-8 with BOM to UTF-8 without BOM while saving text file using the method `Save(string fileName, FormatType.Txt)` of `WordDocument` class and it can be modified using existing public method `SaveTxt(string fileName, Encoding encoding)` of `WordDocument` class.
* Default encoding is modified from Windows Default (ANSI) without BOM to UTF-8 without BOM while saving text file using the method `Save(Stream stream, FormatType.Txt)` of `WordDocument` class and it can be modified using new public method `SaveTxt(Stream stream, Encoding encoding)` of `WordDocument` class.

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#157194 - InvalidOperationException will no longer thrown while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#161613 - Table cell margin is now preserved properly while converting particular Word document as PDF.
* \#164631 - Word document converted as PDF with PDF/A-1b conformance level will meet the adobe preflight PDF/A-1b compliance.
* \#161882 - NullReferenceException will no longer thrown while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#162767, \#162891 - AltChunk contents are now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#162848 - Word splitting issue has been resolved while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#162851 - Performance has been improved in Word to PDF conversion.
* \#164123 - Images are now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#164110 - Vertical merged cell contents are now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#161326 - WMF images are now preserved properly while import/export the DOC format document.
* \#162311 - Checkbox is now preserved properly while resaving a particular DOCX format document.
* \#163760 - ArgumentOutOfRangeException will no longer thrown while opening a particular RTF format document.
* \#165424 - Unicode characters are now preserved properly while resaving a particular RTF format document.
* \#163530 - EncoderFallbackException will no longer thrown while resaving a particular Word document as Text file.
* \#162545 - Track changes are now accepted properly for the particular DOCX format document.
* \#164220 - Empty paragraph is now preserved properly while resaving a particular Word document as HTML.
* \#164220 - Line spacing is now preserved properly while resaving a particular Word document as HTML.
## DropDownList

### Bug Fixes
{:#dropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \#126046  - The issue "Selected items are not maintained for DropDownListFor control during postback in IE11" has been fixed.

### Breaking Changes
{:#dropdownlist-breaking-changes}

* `DropDownListExtenaion` class name has been changed to DropDownListExtension
## Grid

### Bug Fixes
{:#grid-bug-fixes}

* \#159390, \#160787 -  while render the grid in inside `tab` controls the grid `column` `width` is automatically set as 0px when column width is not specified in grid `columns`.
* \#161132 - To drawing a new table with Grid control based on provided position of  x and y axis of `PDF Exporting` . 
* \#163129, \#165277 - `Filterbar` template does not render properly while binding `dataSource` through `setModel`.
* \#159913 - Grid `VirtualScrolling` is not working fine in  `UrlAdapter`.
* \#160922 - Grid height stays large while reload the page after adding more records on the grid.
* \#160922 - At initial load the vertical scrollbar has been generated when we set the scrollbar `height` as 100%.
* \#162740 - Grid not visible in exported sheet when `Column.Width` property is set.
* \#I162953, \#164836 -`TypeBuilder` Class: Exporting Breaks after filtering the Grid.
* \#163835 - `$.unique` not working in IE browser.
* \#165135 - Grid `rowDrop`, `rowDrag`, `rowDragStart` events not fired in unobtrusive mode.
* \#165135 - Script error obtained when `dragging` and `dropping` dialog to droppable grid



## Map

### Bug Fixes
{:#map-bug-fixes}
 
* \#165151  - Now sub layers are rendering properly on adding dynamically.
 


## PDF

### Features
{:#pdf-features}

* \#164699 - Support for UPC-A barcode has been added.


### Bug Fixes
{:#pdf-bug-fixes} 

* \#158424 - Index was outside the bounds of the array exception is no longer thrown, while loading a PDF document.
* \#163672 - Parameter is not valid exception is no longer thrown, while using IE based HTML to PDF converter.
* \#165140 - No duplicate fonts are retrieved from the PDF document.
* \#163906 - Adobe reader exception is no longer thrown, while drawing image in the PDF document.
* \#164547 - Exception is no longer thrown while getting the used fonts from the PDF document.
* \#164832 - Can not find catalog information exception is no longer thrown while loading a PDF document.
* \#163146 - EMF shapes are preserved properly when converting EMF to PDF.
* \#154150 - `PdfGrid` cells are now properly resized based on the row span.
* \#164859 - Application will never get hang while generating the PDF document in multi thread environment using `PdfTrueTypeFont`.
* \#164940 - Image is now preserved properly while converting Presentation to PDF.
* \#164222 - File size of the PDF is now reduced while converting XPS to PDF.
* \#161216 - Extra spaces will never appear between numbers while converting HTML to PDF
* \#157711 - Bold text will never appear as superscript in HTML to PDF conversion.
* \#163976 - File size is reduced while adding time stamp in PDF document.
* \#161590 - Memory leak will never occur while drawing identical image in PDF
* \#165358 - NullReferenceException is no longer thrown while accessing file name in `PdfLoadedFileLinkAnnotation`.
* \#163307 - Layer value is now preserved properly while retrieving from the PDF loaded document.
* \#163402 - Parameter is not valid exception is no longer thrown while processing OCR.
* \#163309 - Font value is now preserved properly in the PDF loaded document
* \#161409 - Form fields value are now preserved properly in extended feature enabled document.
* \#149661 - Page breaks are now preserved properly in IE Converter.




## PivotClient

### Bug fixes
{:#pivotclient-bug-fixes}

* \#165672 - PivotClient is now working properly when we enable `IsResponsive` property.
* \#165672 - Pivot button caption is now displayed properly in PivotClient. 

## Presentation

### Bug Fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}
* \#164372 - The "Null Reference Exception" will be no longer thrown while resaving the PowerPoint presentation with a cloned SmartArt diagram.
* \#164260 - The "Argument Exception" will be no longer raised while converting PowerPoint presentation to an image.
* \#162341 - Text formatting will be now preserved properly while merging two PowerPoint presentations.
* \#164372 - The merged PowerPoint presentation will be no longer corrupted while cloning the slides using "KeepSourceFormatting" option
* \#162450 - Chart series colors are now preserved properly while converting the PowerPoint slide to an image.
* \#161690 - Paragraph text with the gradient fill will be preserved properly while converting the PowerPoint presentation to PDF or image. 


## ReportViewer

### Bug Fixes	
{:#reportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#I163282 - Now, the page settings API options are working fine.
* \#I163282 - Now, the page setup orientation is works fine.
* \#I161847 - The tooltip position is misplaced in IE8 browser issue has been fixed.
* \#I161847 - The Report position is misplaced while page navigating in IE8 browser issue has been fixed. 
## RichTextEditor

### Breaking Changes

{:#richtexteditor-breaking-changes}

* `RichTextEditorExtenaion` class name has been changed to RichTextEditorExtension


## Schedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#schedule-bug-fixes}

* \#165143 - `EnablePersistence` API is included in Scheduler wrapper.
* \#163508 - Appointment is rendering appropriately, when `IsDST` property is set to *false*.

## Spreadsheet

### Bug fixes
{:#spreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#161896 - Issue with wrong row height is preserved while merging wrapped cells row is fixed.

## Tab

### Features
{:#tab-features}

* \#165359 - Provided support for HeaderTemplate in Tab



## XlsIO

### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#163654 - Argument out of range exception is no longer thrown when opening Excel document with shapes.
* \#163633 - Data validation and conditional formatting are properly updated in .xls format.
* \#162635 - Issues with series name, font size and fill color in Excel chart to image conversion are fixed.
* \#163489 - File corruption issue while creating a document with single column sorting is resolved.
* \#162449 - Index out of range exception will not be thrown on chart to image conversion.
* \#163056 - Issue with improper relative hyperlink address is fixed.
* \#163490 - Issue with percent values for Top10 auto filters is fixed.
* \#165013 - Issues with cell merge and its text data while copying ranges are fixed.
* \#163287 - Column width is preserved properly in Excel to HTML conversion.
* \#163802 - Issue with comment shapes while moving ranges is fixed.
* \#163473, \#165498 - File is no longer corrupted while setting `ShowDataFieldInRow` property to true.
* \#164462 - Issue with image position in Excel to PDF conversion is fixed.
* \#164435 - Circular reference exception thrown while moving a cell range is resolved. 
* \#164782, \#159383 - Not a legal OleAut date exception thrown while converting Excel document to PDF in Greek culture is fixed.
* \#162765 - Incorrect cell values in table ranges on PDF conversion is fixed.
* \#163341, \#163474 - Issue with pivot filter types is fixed.
* \#161896 - Incorrect row height while merging the row with wrapped cells is fixed.
* \#154681 - Issues with text formatting in OfficeChart are fixed.
* \#165498 - Argument out of range exception thrown on `ImportDataTable()` is fixed.
* \#163682 - Invalid named range exception is no longer thrown while importing data table.
* \#163882 - Issues with conditional formatting of `CFType` cell formula are fixed.
* \#165559 - Exception is no longer thrown on accessing formula values from conditional formats.

