---
title       : Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC 2017 Volume 2  Service Pack 2  Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC 2017 Volume 2  Service Pack 2  Release Notes
platform    : ejmvc
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2017_vol_2_sp2 version=site.version.2017_vol_2_sp2 %} 






## DocIO

### Features
{:#DocIO-features}
* \#127763, \#178727 - Added mirror margin support in Word to PDF conversion.

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}
* \#180854 - AltChunk content is preserved properly while converting a Word document as PDF.
* \#180409 - Field results are preserved properly while performing Mail merge execution.
* \#180588 - German culture texts are preserved properly while importing and exporting a HTML document.
* \#179474 - List number is preserved properly while converting a Word document as PDF.
* \#180115 - List number is preserved properly while loading a RTF document.
* \#181317, \#180770 - NullReferenceException will be no longer thrown while resaving a Word document.
* \#179474 - Table splitting issue has been resolved while converting a Word document as PDF.
* \#180312 - Page number is preserved properly while updating TableOfContents for a Word document.
* \#180769 - Update mode of OLE linked Excel worksheet is preserved properly while resaving a Word document.
* \#177783 - Textbox missing issue has been resolved while converting a Word document as PDF.
* \#181263 - Shape missing issue has been resolved while resaving a Word document.
* \#181047 - Horizontal line is preserved properly while converting a Word document as PDF.
* \#176802 - Table is preserved properly while converting a Word document as PDF.
* \#180952 - Empty page preservation issue has been resolved while converting a Word document as PDF.
* \#180952 - OutOfMemoryException will be no longer thrown while converting a Word document as PDF.
* \#180065 - Paragraphs are preserved properly while converting a Word document as PDF.

## FileExplorer

### Bug Fixes
{:#fileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#179942 - Resolved the issue, while rename the file name that contains “.” character.
* \#181683 - The issue "In unobtrusive mode, contextMenu items are not rendered properly in FileExplorer" has been fixed.
* \#181910 - As per the FileTypes value, files will be load properly.
* \#181787 - The issue “The adjustSize method does not working properly for grid view of FileExplorer control when created the FileExplorer control in hidden state” has been fixed.
## Gantt

### Bug Fixes
{:#gantt-bug-fixes}

* \#180638 – Row alignment issue in Gantt has been fixed.
* \#181547 - Issue in updating the duration of milestone task has been fixed.
* \#180215 - Issue in exporting Gantt as Excel file with resources has been fixed.






## Grid

### Bug Fixes
{:#grid-bug-fixes} 

* \#I179505 - Script error has been cleared, When enabled the `isPrimaryKey` for `foreignKeyColumn`.
* \#I181175 - Typo error cleared for `CustomContextMenuItems` of `GridProperties`.
* \#I179817 – `DropDown` validation message is working properly in IE browser.

## MaskEdit

### Bug Fixes
{:#maskedit-bug-fixes}

* \#180075 - The issue “In unobtrusive mode, MaskEdit control shows the mask instead of current value from model” has been fixed.
## NumericTextbox

### Features
{:#numerictextbox-features}

* \#180057 - Provided the `positivePattern` support for NumericTextbox.
## PDF viewer

### Features
{:#pdfviewer-features}

* \#178539 - Provided support to restrict editing of form fields based on restriction summary available in the PDF document. 
* \#174628, #178539 - Provided support to maintain the form fields as read only in the PDF documents, if it has read only property set. 



### Bug Fixes
{:#pdfviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#178190 - The color of the page content is now preserved when exporting it as image.
* \#180119 - Characters will be rendered properly while exporting the pages of PDF document as images.
* \#178007 - Contents are now preserved correctly in PDF viewer, while exporting the PDF document as images.
* \#178007 - System.ArgumentException is no longer thrown while exporting the pages of PDF document as images.
* \#180681 - PDF viewer will not produce blank images while exporting the pages of PDF document as images.
* \#164281 - Restricted the page extraction based on the settings available in the encrypted PDF documents.
* \#180342 - The proper casing is provided to the keys in the AJAX request during the download operations.
* \#179586 - The colors of the image now preserve properly while rendering the PDF document.





## PivotClient

### Features
{:#pivotclient-features}

* \#179127, #179216 - KPI support has been provided for OLAP data source in Server Mode.

## PivotGrid

### Features
{:#pivotgrid-features}

* \#180060 - Support provided to set the properties of unbind fields.
* \#177805 - Two way binding is possible in AngularJS.
* \#175739 - User can sort Row/Column by date type in relational database.
* \#175521, #178335 - User can group Row/Column by date type in relational database (only for Client Mode).

## Presentation

### Bug Fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}
* \#180377 - Argument out of range exception will not be thrown while converting a PowerPoint presentation with chart to Pdf.
* \#179842, \#180783 - Null reference exception will not be thrown while converting a PowerPoint presentation to Pdf using the publish option handouts.
* \#180760 - SmartArt is now preserved properly while converting a PowerPoint slide to image.
## Ribbon

### Features	
{:#ribbon-features}

* \#178783 - Provided the cssClass API for Ribbon, to customize the control appearance.
## Schedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#schedule-bug-fixes}

* \#180486 - Resource group is exporting correctly in pdf.
* \#178237 - Appropriate request types added to existing client-side events to achieve the scenario of showing waiting popup in Scheduler before and after the appointments bound to it.
## SpellCheck

### Bug Fixes
{:#spellcheck-bug-fixes}

* \#178931 - Spell checker can now be used on the `TextAreaFor` control using the dialog mode.
## Spreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#spreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#178305 - Issue with cell type value is not displaying the value of the cell is fixed.
* \#178345 - Issue with cell type dropdownlist options are not showing in filtered row is fixed.
* \#178234, \#178213 - Issue with content not refreshed when add or delete a row & insert and delete options are disabled in context menu in normal mode is fixed.
* \#174790 - Issue with the page scrolls automatically on cell select and vertical scroll bar shown unnecessarily in normal mode in IE11 is fixed.
## TreeGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#treegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#180866 – Alignment issues with expand/collapse icons in row template has been fixed.






## XlsIO

### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#180466 - Exception is no longer thrown while opening chart with value axis title.
* \#181226 - Exception is no longer thrown while opening particular file with shape's offset value exceeding integer limit.
* \#180940 - Issue with font color when setting font style in conditional formats is fixed.
* \#181016 - Exception is no longer thrown while accessing `LineStyle` property of a shape in threading.
* \#178198 - Exception thrown on parsing the named range with complete file path is fixed.
* \#180478 - Issue with AutoFit when cell text contains line breaks is fixed.
* \#180329 - XML Exception is no longer thrown while parsing Excel file with chart having empty legend position.
* \#180337 - Line width is changed while changing series color for radar chart is fixed.
* \#180213 - Exception is thrown while parsing `MissingItemsLimit` property in pivot cache is resolved.
* \#179997 - Exception is no longer thrown while opening a chart with discontinuous filtered ranges.
* \#179874 - Default value is not set in Excel pivot table while applying Pivot filter is fixed.
* \#179874 - File corruption issue while applying pivot filter is resolved.
* \#179863 - PrintArea returns invalid range in Excel to PDF conversion is fixed.
* \#179751 - Calculated values are incorrect for table formulas in worksheet to image conversion is fixed.
* \#179732 - File is no longer corrupted when table is created with merged cell ranges.
* \#181584 - Overflow exception while accessing `Value` property is fixed.
* \#179026 - Text is wrongly updated in shapes after add copying of worksheet is fixed.
* \#177928 - File size is not reduced after removing all worksheets is fixed.
* Excel file with pivot table no longer gets corrupted during `AddCopy()`.
* Corruption issue when resaving Excel file with group shapes is fixed.

