---
title       : Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC 2017 Volume 1  Service Pack 2  Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC 2017 Volume 1  Service Pack 2  Release Notes
platform    : ejmvc
---

# Essential Studio for ASP.NET MVC Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2017_vol_1_sp2 version=site.version.2017_vol_1_sp2 %} 






## Common

### Bug Fixes
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#172988 - The issue "Id was not generated properly in For controls" has been fixed.
## Chart

### Bug Fixes
{:#chart-bug-fixes} 
 
* \#172870 – [`Numeric x axis`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-valuetype) range is now calculating properly, when we add data point with x value as 0.
* \#172444 – Chart is now rendering properly when there is only one axis label and [`LabelIntersectAction`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-labelintersectaction) property is set as “WrapByWord”.

## DataManager

### Bug Fixes
{:#datamanager-bug-fixes}

* \#172701, \#175023 - The issue "Unable to add custom header through data source builder" has been fixed.
## DocIO

### Bug Fixes
{:#DocIO-bug-fixes}

* \#167559, \#173876 - No longer hangs while converting the particular Word document as PDF file.
* \#172618 - Page splitting issue is now resolved while converting a particular DOCX format document as PDF.
* \#172618, \#172622, \#174134, \#173670,\#174270,\#174798  - NullReferenceException will no longer thrown while converting a particular DOCX format document as PDF.
* \#172622 - Page break preservation issue is now resolved while converting a particular DOCX format document as PDF.
* \#172910, \#173277 - Paragraph position and frame preservation issue is now resolved while converting a particular DOCX format document as PDF.
* \#173039 - Image missing issue is now resolved while converting a particular DOCX format document as PDF.
* \#173346 - Text drawn with improper font issue has been fixed while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#173445 - Text alignment issue has been fixed while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#173459, \#172942 - No longer hangs while opening a particular DOCX format document.
* \#173517 - Table right border is now preserved properly while saving the particular RTF format document.
* \#173567 - Custom properties result is now preserved properly while updating document fields for a particular Word document.
* \#174396 - Textbox content aligned properly while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#174511 - Table border is now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document as HTML.
* \#174602 - Textbox text missing issue has been resolved while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#174606 - Table width is now preserved properly while converting a particular Word document as PDF.
* \#174834,  \#174894 - Table rows now preserved properly when accepting the track changes.
* \#172618 - Table cell border issue has been fixed while converting particular Word document as PDF.
* \#174246 - NullReferenceException will no longer thrown while refreshing a chart element using DocIO.
Grid

Bug Fixes

{:#grid-bug-fixes}

#I174030- `Group Caption Format` export the proper values with `Foreignkey`column. 

#I172917- `Exporting` is working fine, when used a null value in complex data of `DataTable`.

#I171925- `DataSource`has been updated properly in`OdataV4Adaptor`.When navigate to next page and also updating the new dataSource.

#I171688- Prevented save action when having no changes in records

## PDF

### Bug Fixes
{:#pdf-bug-fixes} 

* \#173882 - The inner color of the ellipse and circle annotations are now preserving properly when flattening the annotation.
* \#174433 - Null reference exception no longer occurs when loading the PDF document
* \#172945 - Named destination is now supported when merging PDF documents.
* \#172848 - Preservation issues will not occur while flattening PDF form fields.
* \#170584 - File size is not increased when importing single page from the PDF document. 
* \#174608 - Images are preserving properly when converting HTML to PDF using IE.
* \#173919 - Null reference exception no longer occurs when getting the certificates from store.
* \#172316 - No exception thrown in Adobe Reader when replacing the image in the PDF document.
* Exception will not occur when adding bookmark to larger PDF document. 

## PDF Viewer

### Features 
{:#pdfviewer-features}

* \#174054 – Support to send Synchronous and Asynchronous requests to download API is implemented.
* \#172274 - Added support to provide user-defined document names when downloading PDF document displayed in the PDF viewer control.
* \#173425 - FileName is included as an argument in the documentLoad event.



### Bug Fixes
{:#pdfviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#172825 - Image is no longer cropped when the PDF document is exported as image with custom DPI value. 
* \#173110 - Image in the header of the document is now displayed properly.

## PivotGrid

### Bug fixes
{:#pivotgrid-bug-fixes}

* \#174974 - PivotGrid is working properly if “Unobtrusive” is enabled. 
 
## Presentation

### Features
{:#presentation-features}
* \#168464 - Added support to create and modify comments in PowerPoint presentations

### Bug Fixes
{:#presentation-bug-fixes}
* \#174113 - The merged PowerPoint presentation will no longer get corrupted while merging cloned slides from PowerPoint presentations
* \#173849, \#173493 - The merged PowerPoint presentation will no longer get corrupted while merging slides from different PowerPoint presentations 
* \#174190 - No more exceptions thrown while creating a new presentation by merging cloned slides from different PowerPoint presentations in multi-threading environment
* \#174295 - Replaced text in a PowerPoint presentation will be no longer marked as spelling error

## ReportViewer

### Bug Fixes    
{:#reportviewer-bug-fixes}
* \#175558 - Resolved console error for image report item in chrome browser.

* \#174783 - Resolved dependent parameter value updation problem in ReportViewer.

* \#174783 - Resolved "select all" string updation in multi-value parameter when all the parameters value is selected.

## Schedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#schedule-bug-fixes}

* \#173922 - Schedule is exporting correctly, even after assigning Guid value to the id field of resources.
## Spreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#spreadsheet-bug-fixes} 
 
* \#173319 - Issue with row misalignment in warp text applied cells is fixed.
* \#173319 - Issue with importing excel that contains table without header row style option is fixed.

## XlsIO

### Features
{:#xlsio-features}

* \#171521, 171966 - Provided rich-text support for chart elements in chart to image conversion.
* \#165809 - Provided support for series with different markers in chart to image conversion.

### Bug fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#173466 - Exception while parsing Excel documents with invalid named range in charts has been fixed.
* \#175311 - Exception is no longer thrown while clearing ranges for empty worksheet.
* \#175311 - Exception is no longer thrown while adding external workbook with invalid named ranges.
* \#172529 - Issue with copying external formula string in `CopyTo` method is fixed.
* \#173735 - Issue with copying a cell value with hyperlink is fixed.
* \#173465 - Issue with spaces in hyperlinks is fixed.
* \#173893 - Formula with custom function is updated properly when named range is removed from workbook.
* \#173674 - Row insertion issue in Excel table with "Template Markers" is resolved.
* \#173808 - Data missing issue while re-saving an Excel document is resolved.
* \#172941 - Issue with content height while saving a workbook in HTML as a stream is fixed.
* \#175332 - File size issue while converting a workbook with charts into HTML is resolved.
* \#172962 - Prompt is no longer displayed in Internet Explorer while opening Excel to HTML converted files.
* \#171967 - Issue with legend order in chart to image conversion is fixed.
* \#162635, 168229, 171967 - Issue with cropping of chart area in chart to image conversion is fixed.
* \#172502 - Secondary value axis missing issue in chart to image conversion is resolved.
* Performance is improved while adding multiple text filters in filters collection.
* Exception is no longer thrown while opening a workbook with `ParseWorksheetsOnDemand` option.
* Exception is no longer thrown while opening Excel documents with invalid formula.
* Exception is no longer thrown while opening workbook with background images.
* Exception is no longer thrown while parsing external worksheets.
* Exception is no longer thrown while opening a workbook with chart using `ParseWorksheetsOnDemand` option.
* `CalculatedValue` now returns proper time value.
* Filters applied is no longer removed when sorting is applied to a filtered range.
* `TopVisibleRow` and `LeftVisibleColumn` are now applied properly.
* Issue with visibility of comments in binary files is fixed.
* Issue with RTF text in merged cells is fixed.
* Range intersection issue for multiple ranges is resolved.
* Issue with visibility of empty data labels in chart to image conversion is fixed.
* Image cropping issue in Excel to HTML conversion is resolved.
* Issue with image position in Excel to HTML conversion is fixed.
* Exception is no longer thrown while converting an Excel document into PDF with header or footer color.
* Exception is no longer thrown while converting an Excel document into PDF with horizontal page breaks.
* Exception is no longer thrown in Excel to PDF conversion while updating table content range.
* XML exception is no longer thrown while converting  Excel document into PDF.
* Issue with clipping of print title rows in Excel to PDF conversion is fixed
* Line missing issue in Excel to PDF conversion if row height is less than text height is resolved.
